📖  Add example queries to developer logging guidelines (#7015)
kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api: docs/book/src/developer/logging.md

## Developing and testing logs

> Our [Tilt](tilt.md) setup offers a batteries-included log suite based on [Promtail](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/clients/promtail/), [Loki](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/fundamentals/overview/) and [Grafana](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/explore/logs-integration/).
> 
> We are working to continuously improving this experience, allowing Cluster API developers to use logs and improve them as part of their development process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our [Tilt](tilt.md) setup offers a batteries-included log suite based on [Promtail](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/clients/promtail/), [Loki](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/fundamentals/overview/) and [Grafana](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/explore/logs-integration/) allowing Cluster API developers to use logs and improve them as part of their development process.
```

Author: I'd prefer to keep this as is.

> For the best experience exploring the logs using Tilt:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the best experience of exploring the logs using Tilt:
```

Author: I don't think there's a grammatical difference here.

1. Set `--logging-format=json`. 
2. Set a high log verbosity, e.g. `v=5`.
3. Enable promtail, loki, and grafana under deploy_observability.

A minimal example of a tilt-settings.yaml file that deploys a ready-to-use logging suite looks like:
```yaml
deploy_observability:
  - promtail
  - loki
  - grafana

>   - prometheus

Reviewer: Out of curiosity: You only need prometheus in the user wants metrics data correct? Is it also used in anyway for logging?

Reviewer 2: AFAIK: ther is no need for prometheus if I only want to take a look at logs.

Author: Yeah - prometheus isn't needed here. Removed now.

```
{app="capi-controller-manager"} | json | cluster_name="my-cluster" reconcileID="6f6ad971-bdb6-4fa3-b803-ef81c5c8f9d0" controller="cluster" | line_format "{{ .msg }}"
```
Will return logs from the `capi-controller-manager`, associated with the Cluster `my-cluster` and the Reconcile ID `6f6ad971-bdb6-4fa3-b803-xxxxxxxxxxxx` it further selects only those logs which come from the Cluster controller. It will then format the logs so only the message is displayed.

```
{app=~"capd-controller-manager|capi-kubeadm-bootstrap-controller-manager|capi-kubeadm-control-plane-controller-manager"} | json | cluster_name="my-cluster" machine_name="my-cluster-linux-worker-1" | line_format "{{.controller}} {{.msg}}"
```

Will return the logs from four CAPI providers - the Core provider, Kubeadm Control Plane provider, Kubeadm Bootstrap provider and the Docker infrastructure provider. It filters by the cluster name and the machine name and then formats the log lines to show just the source controller and the message. This allows us to correlate logs and see actions taken by each of these four providers related to the machine `my-cluster-linux-worker-1`.

> For more insight into how to format and filter logs using Grafana and Loki see:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on formatting and filtering logs using Grafana and Loki see:
```
